# project_winequality README

This project folder contains files associated with wine quality project. The contents and purposes of the files/folders are described below:

## `/data`

This folder contains the following data files:

- `/Climate`: Climate data from daymet for focal winegrowing regions

- `/Vintage_Charts`: pdf charts of wine scores.

- `NapaSonomaNC_Vintage.csv`, `OR_Vintage.csv`, `SB_Vintage.csv`, `WA_Vintage.csv`: Wine scores obtained from Wine Spectator, Wine Enthusiast, Wine Advocate.

## `/stan`

This folder contains the following Stan files:

- `seasonal.stan`: Bayesian model with partial pooling of varieties and location on the intercept, an effect (slope) of seasonal gdd, and an effect (slope) of seasonal precipitation.

- `seasonal_yeareffect.stan`: Bayesian model with partial pooling of varieties and location on the intercept, an effect (slope) of seasonal gdd, an effect (slope) of seasonal precipitation, and effect (slope) of year.

- `threephases.stan`: Bayesian model with partial pooling of varieties and location on the intercept, effects (slopes) of gdd for three phases of the season (corresponding to budburst, flowering, veraison), and effects (slopes) of precipitation for three phases of the season (corresponding to budburst, flowering, veraison)

- `threephases_yeareffect.stan`: Bayesian model with partial pooling of varieties and location on the intercept, effects (slopes) of gdd for three phases of the season (corresponding to budburst, flowering, veraison), effects (slopes) of precipitation for three phases of the season (corresponding to budburst, flowering, veraison), and effect (slope) of year.

## `/output`

This folder contains all outputs generated by the analyses.

## `/extra`

This folder contains exploratory analyses or additional scripts not directly associated with the project.

## Analysis scripts (main folder)

- `data_climate_allregions.R`
     - Combines the climate data with the wine scores + location data. Output is: `output/climate_allregions.csv`, which is used in the analysis.

- `fit_seasonal.R`, `fit_seasonal_yeareffect.R`
     - Scripts for fitting the seasonal models to the wine score data.

- `fit_threephases.R`, `fit_threephases_yeareffect.R`
     - Scripts for fitting the three phase models to the wine score data.

- `plot_ranks.R`
     - Scripts for plotting the raw data on wine scores
