{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12500\viewh17680\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Started 28 July 2014\
Vintage notes (by Lizzie)\
\
\

\b Notes from 9 Dec 2014:\

\b0 \
\ul Orley Ashenfelter\'92s Liquid Assets:\ulnone  Has auction prices! But, the more I think about this, the less we want auction prices. My current understanding is that ratings are trying to guess the quality over time, integrating more fully ageability into the quality rating. Auction prices, however (especially according to Ashenfelter, Ashmore and Lalonde online article I read and saved to PDF), are lower for young wines \'97 good or bad often so the age will be a bigger problem here. \
\
Ashenfelter, Ashmore and Lalonde: \'93In California, for example, it never rains in the summer, and it is always warm in the summer. There is a simple reason for this. In California a high pressure weather system settles each summer over the California coast and produces a warm, dry growing season for the grapes planted there. In Bordeaux this sometimes happens--but usually it does not. Great vintages for Bordeaux wines correspond to the years in which August and September are dry, the growing season is warm, and the previous winter has been wet.\'94\
\
I did an\ul  ISI search \ulnone for TOPIC: (winegrape* OR Vitis vinifera) AND TOPIC: (drought AND temperature*) and looked through the first 50ish of 74 entries:\
\
Some notes below but I made a folder called \'91needtoread\'92 that I need to read! And added two additional papers there.\
\
Effects of climate change scenarios on Tempranillo grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) ripening: response to a combination of elevated CO2 and temperature, and moderate drought (Salazar-Paraa 2010): \
\
\'93Climate change shortened the time between grape veraison and full maturity. At harvest time, many of the grape quality parameters determined were affected by the different grape maturity.\'94\
\
VINE WATER STATUS IS A KEY FACTOR IN GRAPE RIPENING AND VINTAGE QUALITY FOR RED BORDEAUX WINE. HOW CAN IT BE ASSESSED FOR VINEYARD MANAGEMENT PURPOSES? (Van Leeuwan 2009)\
\
Grapevine under deficit irrigation: hints from physiological and molecular data (Chaves et al. 2010)\
\

\b Notes from Andrew Richardson (email on 24 Nov 2014):\

\b0 \
contact Orley Ashenfelter @ Princeton - he\'92s the one who was doing this work  - he had a newsletter 20 years ago, \'93Liquid Assets\'94, which related wine quality to weather patterns \
\
and check out the Journal of Wine Economics (which Orley founded)\
\
and Rob Stavins, at the Kennedy School, and a member of the ESPP board of tutors,  is on the ed board of JWE and has interests in wine and climate change\
 \
lots of things to look in to! \
\
this sounds like cool work so if there\'92s anything I can do to help let me know (I haven\'92t spoken to Orley in 20+ years, but he was my undergrad advisor\'85)\
\
On Nov 24, 2014, at 9:27 PM, Elizabeth M Wolkovich <lizzie@oeb.harvard.edu> wrote:\
\
> HI Andrew,\
>\
> Just sending belated thanks for this. My lab has actually been scrubbing old wine quality data from some books this term (moving on to Robert Parker soon) and hope to have something on this next year. Incidentally none of the auction houses will share their sales info with us ... but perhaps economics professors are more convincing than I am.\
>\
> All the best,\
> Lizzie\
>\
> On 11/18/14, 8:27 PM, Richardson, Andrew wrote:\
>> Hi Lizzie,\
>>\
>> Sorry I had to leave early. I enjoyed your talk.\
>>\
>> One thing that came to mind as I was walking home was, what about the relationship between temperature, precipitation, phenology, and wine quality?\
>>\
>> I was an undergraduate in economics, and my advisor had a side project looking at relationships between climate and wine quality for Bordeaux wines, with quality evaluated from auction prices. It seems this might be another direction you could take this work. If nothing else, you might try some nice vintages!\
>>\
>>  Andrew\
>>\
>>  PS this was dictated on Siri, apologies for typos and nonsense\
\
\

\b Notes from brief chat with Kim Nicholas on 3 Dec 2014:\

\b0 \
\ul Which service to use to compare to Broadbent book?\
\ulnone \
Maybe use Parker since that\'92s one person too.\
RP (Robert Parker) sometimes outsources tasting notes (he will initial somehow when that happens) \
\
She did a comparison of Spectator, Parker and one other source and found that they were extremely\
She has not heard of Tanzer\
Careful! ageability will be what we get with old stuff. Not exactly quality \'85\
\

\b Notes from Summer 2014:\

\b0 \
Main page I was looking at in mid-July with Ben:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.vintagewinegifts.co.uk/acatalog/vintage_wine_chart.php"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://www.vintagewinegifts.co.uk/acatalog/vintage_wine_chart.php}}\
(Jehane Semaha told me on 4 Sept: - Michael Broadbent's Vintage Wine: 50 Years of Tasting the World's Finest Wines \'97 This book is the source material for the vintage timeline you found online, I got in touch with the site host. It looks like a very exciting book for us, huzzah! I've been getting good responses from various other wine experts too, so things are moving along.)\
\
Maybe worth getting: \
(1) The New Sotheby's Wine Encyclopedia: A Comprehensive Reference Guide to the Wines of the World (used copy probably fine) \'97 the older version is here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/Sothebys-Wine-Encyclopedia-Tom-Stevenson/dp/0756686849"}}{\fldrslt http://www.amazon.com/Sothebys-Wine-Encyclopedia-Tom-Stevenson/dp/0756686849}}\
(2) The World Atlas of Wine (Johnson)\
(3) Wine and the Vine: An Historical Geography of Viticulture and the Wine Trade (Unwin, used fine)\
(4) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://smile.amazon.com/The-Wines-Bordeaux-Vintages-1952-2003/dp/0520235738/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1405620409&sr=8-3&keywords=best+vintages+wine"}}{\fldrslt http://smile.amazon.com/The-Wines-Bordeaux-Vintages-1952-2003/dp/0520235738/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1405620409&sr=8-3&keywords=best+vintages+wine}}\
\
Book suggestions: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.wineanorak.com/refb.htm"}}{\fldrslt http://www.wineanorak.com/refb.htm}}\
Wine report books (e.g., Wine Report 2006 by Stevenson) have recent vintages \'85.\
Parker\'92s Wine Buyers Guides (but they may be only recent vintages)\
\
Maybe! Wine Spectator has these?\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Priority regions:\ulnone \
Priority 1:\
- Bordeaux\
- Burgundy\
- Loire Valley (to be more specific Lower Loire Valley)\
- Champagne\
- Languedoc \
- Southern Rhone Valley\
- Switzerland\
- Spain\
\
Priority 2:\
- Ile de France\
- Alsace-Lorraine\
- Beaujolais\
- Jura\
\
Not a priority:\
- Auxerre\
- Avignon\
\
\ul On matching up book (Broadbent 2002):\
\ulnone Spain: we only have \'91Spain\'92s unique vega sicilia\'92\
\'85 I did not finish going through book}